# HASHING (ENCRYPT-PASSWORD)
Hashing is an important cryptographic tool for transforming data into so called hash values. For this, a special hash function is used, usually in the form of an algorithm.

## The Central Task of hashing can be guessed from "chop or mix"

### Implementation with Hashlib

This module implements a common interface to many different secure hash and message digest algorithms. Included are the FIPS secure hash algorithms SHA1, SHA224, SHA256, SHA384, SHA512, (defined in the FIPS 180-4 standard), the SHA-3 series (defined in the FIPS 202 standard) as well as RSA’s MD5 algorithm (defined in internet RFC 1321). The terms “secure hash” and “message digest” are interchangeable. Older algorithms were called message digests. The modern term is secure hash.

// docs.python.org

# PROGRAM

This program contains 3 Main methods

### Password_generator

A basic generator of passwords, Generates the number of posible passwords, calculating the number of symbols, characters and numbers, raised to the length of the password, and then writing them to a text file. They are generated with the integrated Python random library using the Sample() method.

### Encrypt_password

A method that receives two input parameters (password, type) where the password is the one that will be encrypted and the type is the type of hash. analyze the different cases with the match function, if so we call the hashlib library function of the corresponding hash type, for example "hashlib.md5(key)" and then we use the hexdigest function to do the sampling in hexa of so that it is "readable"

### Decrypt_password
It is basically the inverse function of the previous one, except that it receives 3 parameters (hash, type, file) where we receive the hash of the encrypted password, the type that we will resolve and the text file generated by the Password_generator function. It works by opening the text file with the passwords and going through it and performing the conversion with the indicated type, and at the same time looking for equality between the iterable and the hash passed by parameter in case equality is achieved, password decrypted and resolved.


This project is for testing and implementation.
